in the 29th century rampant consumerism
and environmental neglect have turned
earth into a garbage strewn wasteland
humanity is nowhere to be and has been
evacuated by the megacorporation by
enlarge
bnl on giant starliners seven centuries
earlier
of all the robotic trash compactors left
by bnl
to clean up only one remains operational
a waste allocation load lifter
earth class named walle one day
wally's routine of compressing trash and
collecting interesting objects is broken
by the arrival of an unmanned probe
carrying an extraterrestrial vegetation
evaluator named eve
sent to scan the planet for human
sustainable life
walle is smitten by the sleek
otherworldly robot
and the two begin to connect until eve
goes into standby when walle shows her
his most recent find
a living seedling the probe then
collects eve and the plant
and with wally clinging on returns to
its mothership
the starliner axiom in the centuries
since the axiom left earth
its passengers have degenerated into
helpless corpulence due to laziness and
microgravity
their every whim catered to by machinery
even the captain
1b mccree is used to sitting back while
his robotic lieutenant and steering
wheel auto flies the ship
mccree is taken aback by a positive
probe response and learns that placing
the plant in the ship's hollow detector
will trigger a hyper jump back to earth
so humanity
can begin recolonization upon inspecting
eve's storage compartment
however the plant turns up missing and
eve blames walle for its disappearance
with the plant missing eve is deemed
faulty and taken to diagnostics
mistaking the process for torture walle
shuts all of diagnostics down
causing him and eve to be designated as
rogues
frustrated eve tries to send w-a-l-l-e
home on an escape
pod but they are interrupted when otto's
first mate go4 arrives and stows the
stolen plant in a pod set to
self-destruct
walle saves the plant from being lost
for good
and he and eve reconcile and celebrate
with a dance in space around the axiom
eve brings the plant back to mccree who
watches eve's recordings of earth and
concludes that they have to go back
however otto is revealed to be loyal
only to his own secret no return
directive a113 issued after bnl
inaccurately concluded centuries ago
that the planet could not be saved even
when mccree countermands it
auto mutinies with go4 as a result
electrocuting and frying wally's circuit
board
putting eve into standby throwing them
both down the garbage chute
and locking mccree in his quarters even
w-a-l-l-e are nearly ejected into space
along with the ship's trash but are
saved by the cleaning robot microbe
obliterator named emo
who has been following wally's dirt
trail across the ship
as humans and robots help in securing
the plant mccree
and auto fight for control resulting in
go4 being obliterated and walle being
crushed in the hollow detector when the
latter tries to keep it open mccree
eventually overpowers and deactivates
auto
and the plant is inserted into the
hollow detector initiating the hyper
jump
arriving back on earth eve repairs walle
but finds that his memory has been reset
and his personality is gone
heartbroken eve gives walley a farewell
kiss
which sparks his memory and restores his
original personality
walle and eve reunite as the inhabitants
of the axiom take their first steps on
earth
during the credits humans and robots
turn the ravaged planet into a paradise
and the plant is shown to have grown
into a mighty tree